
## Final project ##

Your final project will _probably_ be done with a partner. The profs will help you pair up (and check with us if you really think you want to go alone).

The project should consist of an exploration of some data. There should be a consistent topic but you needn't use only a single data file.

Your project should consist roughly of a brief description of the data set, and three or four well-thought-out visualizations (this is a guide, you could have a few as one really fancy one, or as many as ten simple ones that work really well together).

You should have a two-part writeup: the main text will be just the text necessary to support the story that you're trying to tell, and there should be a methods part explaining briefly some of the visualization choices that you made, and if necessary briefly explaining decisions or cleanup things you had to do about the data.

Please submit your writeup as a pdf or html file by noon on [TBA]. Submit by pushing to your repository (ideally with all of the scripts used to construct the visualizations from raw data) and letting us know the name of the primary file.

## Project milestone

Please submit a brief (0.5-2 pages) prospectus outlining what data you will use and some ideas about the story you wish to tell.

You should post this on a github repo. This can either be a directory in an existing repo, or a new repo to which one of you invites both of us (bbolker, dushoff) and your group members.

## week 1

By the beginning of the first class period:

- make sure you can run RStudio (and R)
- set up a GitHub account if necessary
	* make an (empty except for a `README` file) repository called Stat744, and add `dushoff` and `bbolker` as collaborators
- watch the Rausher video (see [main page](index.html))

- read Sections 1-3 of [Wilke's _Fundamentals of Data Visualization_](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/)
- email us to let us know you have finished, and to tell us your github username

## General

For the first few weeks of the course, there will be a short assignment every week. These will be promulgated usually on Sunday, and you are advised to start before class on Monday. Assignments are technically due Friday at 16:30. This is to encourage you to finish quickly if you can, and move on with your life, not to give you pressure. 

If your assignment will be late, please email us by Friday at 16:30 to let us know when you will hand it in. This should be before 16:30 on Monday, unless we give permission for special circumstances.

**Submit your assignment by email** to [macdataviz@gmail.com](mailto:macdataviz@gmail.com). Your assignment is not done until you do this. 

<!-- Comment
    See QMEE/ assignments for more text that we will want to adapt when we give them R assignments.
-->

